From last week:
"My goals for this week are twofold: First, I will be meeting with Mike when I can to get some help on past homeworks as well as learning strategies so that I can catch myself up and not fall behind as I did last quarter. Second, I will be meeting with and interacting with my team, both in person and on Slack, more often as I work on fixing the PipeJam codebase (and eventually, adding features to either it or FlowJam). I hope that in these two ways I can feel more confident about my ability in this class and my value on this team, and successfully fix PipeJam (with the help of my teammates) this week."

The day after submitting last week's report, our team had a meeting focusing on Project 5. Because our project progression is different from most (mostly debugging and fixing an existing codebase, rather than creating our own or extending another), our goal was to set up Travis CI as instructed, but rather than setting up automated testing, we would find a way to automatically record which files still contain compile errors after every push, as a heuristic for estimating how closes we are to a working codebase. I agreed to tackle this problem, so my goal shifted from Haxe to Travis CI and bug tracking for this week. I was able to successfully get Travis CI working with our repository, but I guess I didn't communicate well enough, because when I sat down on Thursday to tackle compile error counting, I found that another of my teammates had already nearly completed it. Even though he did a better job than I would have, I felt a little slighted.

My goals for this week mostly consist of returning to learning from Autumns commits how to fix common compiler issues, and making my own attempts at fixing some of the problems. Also, in light of the miscommunication regarding compile error tracking, I will be increasingly explicit in my communication with my teammates to ensure that they understand exactly what I am working on. This will hopefully improve team efficiency, as well as my teammates' confidence in my ability to contribute to this project.